-- Promise: The Promise Object represents the eventual completion or failure of an asynchrnous operation and its resulting value.
-- PROMISE IS AN OBJECT. 
-- Not all tasks are completed immediately after being put in the queue. 
-- Example: Reading File: Kernel Access required, Database realted queries and Cryptograhically realted operation
-- Example: Opeing Camera in Mobile Applicaiton 
-- Using the "New" keyword to create an opeator is Promises.
-- BlueBird old library that was used previous to Library. 

-- Promise States: 




-- 1️⃣ fetch() returns a Promise

When you call fetch(), it does not immediately return data.

It returns a Promise that will resolve later with the response.

Example:

const response = fetch(url); // Promise
2️⃣ Promises handle asynchronous operations

Promises are used when a task takes time (API request, file reading, etc.).

They allow JavaScript to continue running without blocking.

3️⃣ .then() is used to handle resolved promises

.then() runs after the Promise is fulfilled.

Example:

fetch(url).then(response => response.json())
4️⃣ .catch() handles errors

.catch() runs if the Promise fails or throws an error.

Example:

.catch(error => console.log(error))
5️⃣ response.json() also returns a Promise

Many beginners miss this.

You need another .then() or await.

Example:

response.json()
6️⃣ async functions allow await

async makes a function automatically return a Promise.

It allows the use of await.

Example:

async function getData() {}
7️⃣ await pauses execution inside async functions

await waits until the Promise resolves before moving forward.

Example:

const response = await fetch(url);
8️⃣ async/await is syntactic sugar over Promises

Internally JavaScript still uses Promises.

async/await just makes the code cleaner and easier to read.

9️⃣ try...catch replaces .catch() in async code

In async/await, errors are handled using try–catch blocks.

Example:

try {
   const data = await fetch(url);
} catch(error) {
   console.log(error);
}
🔟 fetch() only rejects on network errors

fetch() does NOT fail on HTTP errors like 404 or 500.

You must manually check:

if(!response.ok){
   throw new Error("Request failed");
}